We have a second repo for this.
Purposely these are not built in React,
these are built in Svelte,
mostly to point, this should not
be a framework specific course,
despite my case study on
my own Redux issue earlier.
But there's a bunch of just apps where
we can drive it on cuz theoretically,
your user does not care whether or
not using Svelte or Vue, or
Angular, or Backbone, or jQuery,
or React or what have you.
They're going to a website, half the
Internet is probably still WordPress and
jQuery to be honest,
despite what you read on Hacker News.
And so you can go, and so one of the ways
unique to our interest in this workshop,
where I would say that this
is a really great option is,
if you're doing every few
year framework switch, right?
That never actually happens,
you're always about to do it, and
then you end up like three React pages and
a Backbone app.
And so this is a great way to kind of
build yourself the infrastructure to begin
figuring that out, and moving stuff and
doing the large refactor, and
stuff along those lines.
Ideally, unless I have made some
terrible mistakes, which I might have,
we can set up Playwright using npx,
let me just check it out real quick.
So you got this, basically, what it will
do is it will pull down all the browsers.
So, we will go ahead and
we will get started here.
How to install Playwright?
Npm init playwrightlatest.
Again, I use npm normal,
so that'll do it as well.
But here we've got it,
where we can do npm init.
That's one of those commands
which you run once in a repo and
then good luck trying to remember.
For a lot of you,
it will start to ask you a bunch
of questions on where
you want things to go.
I don't like E2E.
I like this question.
Add a GitHub Actions workflow?
Don't mind if I do, right, absolutely.
Install the Playwright browsers?
That seems like I need it,
now I probably have it in my cache.
That probably went way faster for
me, but that's okay.
One thing you notice and I just say
this in case you have a need for it,
it can go on the internet and
do things too, right?
It can go to any URL, you give it.
So if you want to automate
a browser to do things.
And when we see some of the other tooling,
you'll see why that could be useful for
all sorts of terrible reasons.
So some things that I would like to
call out, that I think are super
interesting for our purposes, and
it may be partially intentional
on my part is to look at how
a Playwright test is structured.
All right, it's got a test,
it has a title.
They are all async functions cuz
we're controlling a browser,
let's be clear here.
You do get this page object passed in,
all right?
And there's some other
things in there as well.
But it's really interesting how
you find stuff on the page.
It effectively has the same syntax or
API as the testing library stuff
that we did earlier, right?
So for instance, if you're like,
hey, it was really great to see that
we talked about some of the nuances
of component testing and
we discovered some the laughs that we
had along the way, I don't have that.
That many component tests,
to be totally honest with you.
Partially, cuz I didn't
like enzyme as much, right?
There's lots of reasons.
I do think that for me, it is unit tests
and Playwright tests predominantly, right?
And so I think some other people
have a lot of component tests.
I'm kind of scooped in the middle,
I've got the unit tests in that spectrum.
And I've got these, but that's just
my taste and I don't want to enforce
my tastes on you, which I've
definitely been doing, but it's fine.
But generally speaking, I like this
as well but the trade off is slower.
And when it breaks you're not gonna get
anything log to the console with the diff
of the snapshot and
why it's broken, right?
If you can figure it out, but
it's gonna be a little bit different.
But the important part that I bring
up here is it lives other than sum
of weights.
And the idea that there are methods here
instead of having to use user event or
fire event, and
you can't actually fire events,
because this is truly your driving
a browser like a customer would.
You have to almost do this stuff, like
we're building up to something on purpose.
And you can click as a method this time.
So there's little nuances here,
but generally speaking,
super powerful for kinda spinning up.
So, let's go ahead and
let's do npx Playwright test.
Let's hope that I picked the right repo,
I don't embarrass myself once again.
It's Chromeum and WebKit and
all those things, and
then it shows me a report, right?
The report is an HTML file.
Let's go run that as well.
Cool, and you can see all the different
tests, it says, do you have a title?
And I can see everything in here as well.
And this is really not all that
interesting, shows you everything so
on and so forth.
What I would like to bring
your attention to is,
there are ways you can do everything
if you don't have VS Code, but
I haven't walked around the room, looks
like almost, is anyone not using VS Code?
All right, cool.
There is a plugin, you don't need it, that
does that kind of test filtering that we
saw before, where I can run a given test.
It also has a hotkey,
which is Cmd+; and then the letter L,
we'll run the last test again,
which I believe also works with Vitest.
If you've got that plug in as well,
so you can do, if not, I still go and
run npm test, or later watching cuz I
just muscle memory, but it's typical.
And you're gonna run these
tests like this as well.
And this one will spin up the browser, and
you'll kind of see it do its thing,
and it will leave the browser open.
And that is somewhat an important
point that we're going to deal with.
Also, you'll notice that if
you have the plugin installed,
I mean, you can not leave the browser
open as well, that's a thing.
But I really like these, and
this will relate back to,
even if you're like, no,
I like my component tests.
There is a reason why you might still
do some of your components tests
developing in Playwright as well.
The big question is, with my screen this
zoomed in, can I show two windows at once?
We're gonna find out together.
I'll put that one over there,
put that one over there.
Yeah, that works.
We'll close this sidebar, and
one of the things you can,
I needed the sidebar,
you can do this pick locator.
And you can see, look at that.
People ask me before,
how did you know that thing had the role?
I cheated [LAUGH] I cheated hours ago.
Honestly, a year ago to the point
where that's how I kind of have
an intuitive sense about these things.
>> That's from the Playwright extension?
>> Yeah.
And it spun up this browser and
then it puts it in here.
>> That's awesome.
>> And then, it'll paste it on
my clipboard or whatever, right?
So that will give me, and
I'd have to have the page dot, right?
I picked the same one for funny reasons,
cuz it was a button on a page.
We know that the simple finding of that
button means that it is on the page.
If that button was to not exist,
so for instance, This
one will definitely not exist, and
then we were to run the test, it'll fail.
So, right, minor, right?
Don't embarrass me.
>> I think, yeah.
Should it fail like that, with the click?
>> The big question about having used
that many frameworks much in a row is,
am I slightly mistaken or
did it just not run again?
We'll see.
>> Cuz the expect would be true
no matter what,
you've already clicked on the first link.
>> But not finding it should fail,
but also did I actually run them,
was I talking,
was I really paying attention?
I don't really know.
You usually know that you're in bad shape,
because the wait for and testing library,
animations happen, network requests
take a certain amount of time,
especially cuz we're the real
world at this point, right?
It is driving this browser,
and things take time, so
you can see it's got a test
timeout of 30,000 milliseconds for
those keeping track at home,
that's 30 seconds.
And so, you can tell by the spinning
that things are gonna go poorly.
This sidebar plugin is
great when it's great.
If you try to cancel tests midway through,
you will end up in a bad state [LAUGH].
It is great when it works, and
if you get into a weird state, you need
to quit VS Code and open it again.
That said, what it does, well, it does so
amazing that we deal
with its peculiarities.
At certain points, this test fails,
cuz it tried to click on
a thing that didn't exist.
Maybe I'm just mixing up,
it might be a different selector as well.
But yeah, so
what's super powerful here is,
you saw how easy it was to get a selector.
Don't worry, this gets better.
You saw how easy it is to get a selector,
and you know that if you had three,
four, five, ten,
one test that went through and
hit all the critical parts
of your code base, right?
Can you be relatively certain that
you didn't break anything in a very
serious way?
Yeah, right?
And that's, I think,
one of the really kind of powerful parts.